# Equity Glossary of Terms

Good communication is made possible when we have shared language to use. 

Use this glossary to help define and acknowledge language related to equity. This starter list of terms were identified by the inaugural USDS DEIA Council. This list will grow over time (and you are encouraged to add to it!). 

[More terms can be found at
https://www.feminuity.org.](https://teams.omb.gov/team/USDS/Shared%20Documents/DEIA%20equity%20toolkit/Toolkit%20Drafts/More%20terms%20can%20be%20found%20at%20https:/www.feminuity.org.)

Remember! Language is critically important, highly imperfect, and
ever-evolving. 

## Your (Growing) List of Terms

**Accessibility:** The design, development, procurement and maintenance
of inclusive technology, information, programs, services, and facilities
so that all stakeholders and those we serve, especially individuals and
communities who are traditionally underserved and marginalized -
including those who are disabled - can fully and independently use them.

**Belonging:** The extent to which people feel part of a larger whole in
a group setting. One of the ways that we measure inclusion.

**Brave Spaces:** a supportive environment that enables a participant to
feel comfortable taking a certain amount of risk in order to express
themselves or share their thoughts/experiences

Regardless of the policies or norms that a space espouses, whether a
space is “safe” or “brave” or neither is in the eyes of each individual
who participates. A safe space for one person might be a brave space for
another, and a safe space for someone when discussing a particular topic
might not be a safe space for that person when they discuss a different
topic that feels more risk-laden.

**Diversity**: The achievement of a workforce composition that all
stakeholders, especially individuals and communities who are
traditionally underserved and marginalized, trust to represent the
public we serve.

**Lived Experience:** Personal knowledge about the world gained through
direct, first-hand involvement in everyday events rather than through
representations constructed by other people.

**Inclusion:** The achievement of an environment that all stakeholders,
especially individuals and communities who are traditionally underserved
and marginalized, trust to be safe, supportive, welcoming, and
respectful.

**Intersectionality:** Acknowledges that people have overlapping
identities and lived experiences complicating their relationship to
prejudice and oppression.

**Mattering:** Consists of engaging employees in workplace decisions,
building a culture of gratitude and recognition, and connecting
individual work with organizational mission. One of the ways we measure
inclusion.

**Marginalized:** More commonly used in academia, social
work/justice/movements. Refers to those deprived of institutional power
to create change or those who are most likely to experience various
forms of exclusion. Occurs when someone’s identity is undervalued or
discriminated against. Does not necessarily mean underrepresentation.

**Psychological Safety:** The individual, team, or organizational belief
that an environment allows for risk taking, vulnerability, and failure.
One of the ways that we measure inclusion.

**Safe Spaces:** a supportive, non-threatening environment that enables
a participant to feel there is no risk to expressing themselves and
sharing their thoughts/experiences

**Underrepresented:** More commonly used to speak about a low number of
a specific identity relative to general population.

**Underserved:** More commonly used in government (at least more
recently), to recognize the role racism, discrimination and other forms
of oppression play in denying certain individuals and communities full
access to services, opportunities, and participation in systems.
Executive Order 13895 lists the following groups as underserved: Black,
Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders and other persons of color; members of religious
minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+)
persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and
persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or
inequality. ”

## Want to share feedback? Have a term to submit? Reach out!
Your input is not only welcome, it's needed. You can book time for a more private conversation, schedule a consultation with us, submit a new idea or just ask a question using this Polly. This gets sent as a DM to USDS's Equity Delivery team team but not to our working channel.
